Imagine you're working as a
security analyst and receive multiple alerts about suspicious
activity on the network. You realize that you'll need to implement additional security
measures to keep these alerts from becoming serious incidents. But
where do you start? As an analyst, you'll
start by identifying your organization's
critical assets and risks. Then you'll implement the necessary frameworks
and controls. In this video, we'll discuss
how security professionals use frameworks to continuously
identify and manage risk. We'll also cover how to use security controls to manage
or reduce specific risks. Security frameworks
are guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risks and
threats to data and privacy. Security frameworks provide
a structured approach to implementing a
security lifecycle. The security lifecycle is a constantly evolving
set of policies and standards that define how an organization
manages risks, follows established guidelines, and meets regulatory
compliance, or laws. There are several
security frameworks that may be used to manage different types
of organizational and regulatory compliance risks. The purpose of security
frameworks include protecting personally identifiable
information, known as PII, securing financial information, identifying security weaknesses, managing organizational risks, and aligning security
with business goals. Frameworks have four
core components and understanding them
will allow you to better manage potential risks. The first core component is identifying and documenting
security goals. For example, an organization
may have a goal to align with the E.U.'s General
Data Protection Regulation, also known as GDPR. GDPR is a data protection
law established to grant European
citizens more control over their personal data. A security analyst may be
asked to identify and document areas where an organization is out of compliance with GDPR. The second core
component is setting guidelines to achieve
security goals. For example, when implementing guidelines to achieve
GDPR compliance, your organization
may need to develop new policies for how to handle data requests from
individual users. The third core component
of security frameworks is implementing strong
security processes. In the case of GDPR, a security analyst working for a social media company
may help design procedures to ensure
the organization complies with verified
user data requests. An example of this type
of request is when a user attempts to update or delete
their profile information. The last core component of security frameworks is monitoring and
communicating results. As an example, you may monitor your organization's
internal network and report a potential security
issue affecting GDPR to your manager or
regulatory compliance officer. Now that we've introduced the four core components
of security frameworks, let's tie them all together. Frameworks allow analysts
to work alongside other members of the
security team to document, implement, and use the policies and procedures that
have been created. It's essential for an entry-level
analyst to understand this process because
it directly affects the work they do and how they
collaborate with others. Next, we'll discuss
security controls. Security controls are safeguards designed to reduce
specific security risks. For example, your company may have a guideline
that requires all employees to complete a privacy training to reduce
the risk of data breaches. As a security analyst, you may use a software
tool to automatically assign and track which employees have completed
this training. Security frameworks
and controls are vital to managing
security for all types of organizations and
ensuring that everyone is doing their part to maintain
a low level of risk. Understanding their
purpose and how they are used allows analysts to support an organization's
security goals and protect the
people it serves. In the following videos, we'll discuss some
well-known frameworks and principles that
analysts need to be aware of to minimize risk
and protect data and users.