Welcome back. In the last video, we introduced you to the
first four security domains. In this video, we'll introduce you to the next four
security domains: identity and access management, security assessment and testing, security operations, and
software development security. Familiarizing yourself
with these domains will allow you to navigate the
complex world of security. The domains outline and organize how a team of security
professionals work together. Depending on the organization, analyst roles may sit
at the intersection of multiple domains or focus
on one specific domain. Knowing where a particular role fits within the
security landscape will help you prepare
for job interviews and work as part of a
full security team. Let's move into
the fifth domain: identity and access management. Identity and access management focuses on keeping
data secure, by ensuring users follow
established policies to control and manage
physical assets, like office spaces, and logical assets, such as
networks and applications. Validating the identities of employees and
documenting access roles are essential to maintaining the organization's physical
and digital security. For example, as a
security analyst, you may be tasked
with setting up employees' keycard
access to buildings. The sixth domain is security
assessment and testing. This domain focuses on conducting security
control testing, collecting and analyzing
data, and conducting security audits to monitor for risks, threats, and
vulnerabilities. Security analysts may
conduct regular audits of user permissions,
to make sure that users have the correct
level of access. For example, access to payroll information is often limited to certain employees, so analysts may be asked to
regularly audit permissions to ensure that no
unauthorized person can view employee salaries. The seventh domain is
security operations. This domain focuses
on conducting investigations and implementing
preventative measures. Imagine that you, as
a security analyst, receive an alert that an unknown device has been connected to your
internal network. You would need to follow
the organization's policies and procedures to quickly
stop the potential threat. The final, eighth domain is
software development security. This domain focuses on using
secure coding practices, which are a set of recommended
guidelines that are used to create secure
applications and services. A security analyst may work with software development
teams to ensure security practices
are incorporated into the software
development life-cycle. If, for example, one of your partner teams is
creating a new mobile app, then you may be asked to advise on the
password policies or ensure that any user data is properly secured and managed. That ends our introduction to CISSP's eight security domains. Challenge yourself to
better understand each of these domains and
how they affect the overall security
of an organization. While they may still be a bit unclear to you this
early in the program, these domains will
be discussed in greater detail in the next
course. See you there!