As we discussed previously, organizations use a variety
of tools, such as SIEMs, playbooks, and packet
sniffers to better manage, monitor, and analyze
security threats. But those aren't the only
tools in an analyst's toolkit. Analysts also use
programming languages and operating systems to
accomplish essential tasks. In this video, we'll
introduce you to Python and SQL programming, and the
Linux operating system. All of which you'll have
an opportunity to practice using later in the
certificate program. Organizations can use
programming to create a specific set of instructions for a computer to execute tasks. Programming allows analysts to complete repetitive tasks and processes with a high degree
of accuracy and efficiency. It also helps reduce the
risk of human error, and can save hours or days compared to performing
the work manually. Now that you're aware of what programming languages
are used for, let's discuss a specific and related
operating system called Linux, and two programming
languages: SQL and Python. Linux is an open-source, or publicly available,
operating system. Unlike other operating systems
you may be familiar with, for example MacOS or Windows, Linux relies on a command line as the primary user interface. Linux itself is not a
programming language, but it does allow for the use of text-based commands
between the user and the operating system. You'll learn more about
Linux later in the program. A common use of Linux for entry-level security analysts is examining logs to better understand what's
occurring in a system. For example, you might find yourself using
commands to review an error log when investigating uncommonly high network traffic. Next, let's discuss SQL. SQL stands for Structured
Query Language. SQL is a programming
language used to create, interact with, and request
information from a database. A database is an
organized collection of information or data. There may be millions of
data points in a database. So an entry-level security
analyst would use SQL to filter through the data points to retrieve specific
information. The last programming language
we'll introduce is Python. Security professionals can use Python to perform tasks that are repetitive and
time-consuming and that require a high level of
detail and accuracy. As a future analyst, it's important to
understand that every organization's
toolkit may be somewhat different based
on their security needs. The main point is that
you're familiar with some industry standard tools
because that will show employers that you have the
ability to learn how to use their tools to protect the organization and
the people it serves. You're doing great! Later in the course, you'll learn
more about Linux and programming languages,
and you'll practice using these tools in
security-related scenarios.