For any job, you need certain
skills to be successful, and many of these
core skills are transferable from one
role to the next. No matter what job
you currently have, you likely have many
core skills already. Having a diverse background
enhances your core skills, which means your
personal experiences and perspectives are
especially valuable. In this video, we'll discuss both transferable and
technical skills that are particularly useful for
a security analyst. Transferable skills
are skills from other areas that can apply
to different careers. Technical skills may apply to several professions as well. However, at times they
may require knowledge of specific tools,
procedures, and policies. Let's discuss some core transferable skills
you may already have that will benefit you in a career as a
security analyst. Communication is a
transferable skill for a security analyst. They will often need to describe
certain threats, risks, or vulnerabilities to people who may not have a
technical background. For example, security
analysts may be tasked with interpreting and
communicating policies and procedures to
other employees. Or analysts may be asked
to report findings to their supervisors, so
the appropriate actions can be taken to secure
the organization. Another transferable
skill is collaboration. Security analysts often work
in teams with engineers, digital forensic investigators,
and program managers. For example, if you are working to roll out a new
security feature, you will likely have
a project manager, an engineer, and an ethical
hacker on your team. Security analysts also
need to be able to analyze complex scenarios
that they may encounter. For example, a security analyst may need to make recommendations
about how different tools can
support efficiency and safeguard an organization's
internal network. The last transferable skill that we'll discuss is
problem-solving. Identifying a security problem and then diagnosing
it and providing solutions is a necessary skill to keep business
operations safe. Understanding threat actors
and identifying trends can provide insight on how
to handle future threats. Okay, now that we've covered some important
transferable skills, let's discuss some
technical skills that security analysts
need to develop. A basic understanding of programming languages is an important skill
to develop because security analysts can
use programming to automate tasks and
identify error messages. Like learning any
other language, learning a programming language may seem challenging at first. However, this
certificate program assumes no prior
programming experience, so we'll start at
the very beginning and provide several
opportunities for hands-on practice with
languages like Python and SQL. Another important technical
skill is knowing how to use security information and event
management, or SIEM, tools. Security professionals use
SIEM tools to identify and analyze security threats,
risks, and vulnerabilities. For example, a SIEM
tool may alert you that an unknown user
has accessed the system. In the event of an unknown
user accessing the system, you may use computer forensics to investigate the incident. Now, let's discuss
computer forensics. Similar to an investigator and a forensic scientist working in the criminal justice system, digital forensic
investigators will attempt to identify, analyze, and preserve criminal
evidence within networks, computers, and
electronic devices. Keep in mind that
you may already have some of the core skills
we've discussed. And if you don't have the
technical skills, that's okay! This program is designed to support you in
learning those skills. For example, over the past seven years
working in cybersecurity, I've learned that security
analysts need to have intellectual curiosity
and the motivation to keep learning in
order to succeed. Personally, I dedicate time on a regular basis
towards learning more Python and SQL
skills in order to meet the demands of the
projects I'm working on. You'll get to learn
about Python and SQL later in this program. As you continue this journey, you'll build the
knowledge and skills you need to enter
the security field.