As we've discussed, security professionals
protect many physical and digital assets. These skills are desired
by organizations and government entities because
risk needs to be managed. Let's continue to discuss
why security matters. Security is essential for ensuring
an organization's business continuity and ethical standing. There are both legal implications and moral considerations to maintaining
an organization's security. A data breach, for example, affects everyone that is
associated with the organization. This is because data losses or leaks
can affect an organization's reputation as well as the lives and reputations
of their users, clients, and customers. By maintaining strong security measures,
organizations can increase user trust. This may lead to financial growth and
ongoing business referrals. As previously mentioned, organizations are not the only ones
that suffer during a data breach. Maintaining and
securing user, customer, and vendor data is an important part
of preventing incidents that may expose people's personally
identifiable information. Personally identifiable
information, known as PII, is any information used to infer
an individual's identity. PII includes someone's full name,
date of birth, physical address,
phone number, email address, internet protocol, or IP address and
similar information. Sensitive personally
identifiable information, known as SPII, is a specific type of PII that
falls under stricter handling guidelines and may include social security numbers,
medical or financial information, and
biometric data, such as facial recognition. If SPII is stolen,
this has the potential to be significantly more damaging to an individual
than if PII is stolen. PII and SPII data are key assets
that a threat actor will look for if an organization experiences a breach. When a person's identifiable
information is compromised, leaked, or stolen,
identity theft is the primary concern. Identity theft is the act of stealing
personal information to commit fraud while impersonating a victim. And the primary objective of
identity theft is financial gain. We've explored several
reasons why security matters. Employers need security analysts
like you to fill the current and future demand to protect data,
products, and people while ensuring confidentiality, integrity, and
safe access to information. This is why the U.S. Bureau of
Labor Statistics expects the demand for security professionals to grow by
more than 30% by the year 2030. So keep learning, and eventually you'll be
able to do your part to create a safer and more secure environment for
organizations and people alike!