Hi, I'm Holly and I'm a Cloud Security Architect
with Google Cloud. At the beginning of
my adult career, I sold hosiery while I
was going to school. That led me into an opportunity
to work in banking, which then led me into an opportunity to work
in telecommunications. From there I managed
to get myself into a security vendor
and learn security. Part of the way
that I was able to change from my original half
of my tech career being a database administrator
to getting into cybersecurity was through
getting certificates like you're doing today. Those really helped me
gain credibility with potential employers
when I didn't have the experience in
this particular field yet. Ethics are really the
crux of cybersecurity, you need to be able to
be ethical in all of your actions in order to be a
cybersecurity professional. Examples of unethical
behavior are usually honestly just
slight laziness, people taking shortcuts
and not really thinking about the
consequences of their actions. So, certainly when people
share passwords to systems or give out
private information, or look into systems for their own personal information or purposes about people they
know or about celebrities. One of the most difficult
situations that I ever faced in my technology career related to ethics was shortly after 9/11, my boss's boss's boss came to me with a bunch of keywords
that were clearly related to the attack in New York and asked me to
query the database that I administered that had everybody's
text messages in it for the entire
telecommunications company without anything in writing
and without a court order. I was in a very uncomfortable
position to tell someone that much senior than me that I wasn't
comfortable doing that. I suggested that he bring
something in writing to me to do that and he found someone else
who did it for him. When you're faced with one of
these difficult decisions, it's good to think
about what would be the consequences
of your decision. My encouragement to those
of you out here taking this program is that
the rewards that you get from helping to protect
your company or your users or your organization from cyber
criminals is really great. We get to be the
good guys and help protect our industry and our customers from cyber attacks and cyber criminals.
That's rewarding.